so can we just start by doing
introductions again sounds good to me
you're gonna start off Richard yeah sure
so my name is Richard I was on the
previous stream so I was going strong
for about ten days and unfortunately
I've relapse yesterday was which I was
pretty bummed about maybe we can talk
about that today and it's it was kind of
I don't know I I was pretty visibly
upset with myself because I thought of
this great opportunity to come on stream
and you know kind of talk about porn
addiction and I thought like I tried to
kind of rearrange it in my head to where
like I changed it from like a self
devoted interest to stop watching porn
into like kind of like a group Dharma
kind of thing I kind of made it like my
responsibility to kind of step up and
quit this addiction for like everyone
watching and to show everyone that's
possible and I was I was kind of hurt
when I figured out you know I'm only
human and I just really left so I don't
know maybe we can get into that and some
of the people were able to go strong the
whole time so I'm interested to hear
their kind of techniques and how they
did that so yeah so welcome back Richard
thank you
who wants to go next
I guess I'll go next
oh my name is bear and I'm new to the
stream yeah welcome bear thank you it's
a pleasure to be here it's an honor so I
watched the first stream and I couldn't
relate because I again to little
periodic episodes where I get into
analysis paralysis okay and I ended up
turning to masturbation and gaming to
kind of like
work my way through
okay rather than it just being like
trauma yes okay so you said that you had
difficulty relating and you feel like
masturbation for you is is like tied up
to like other other sort of cognitive
things as opposed to some kind of trauma
yes
okay okay so we can definitely talk
about that thanks for coming on man also
huge props to you know your gigantic
balls for showing your face on a stream
like this they I'm nervous man yeah man
I think I think we're all nervous who's
nervous show hands okay so who else
wants to go wants to introduce
themselves the cat in the corner you
gotta go person now okay all right I'll
go I guess go for us I'm ghosts probably
know if you know me from the last stream
glad to be back I think this will be
interesting
yeah I hope so
I'm Erin I was also on the live stream
and I guess I hope that we get to cover
some extra bits that we didn't get to
last stream absolutely anything in
particular that I think you want to talk
about today um I'd like to just like
first maybe catch up and reiterate on
briefly reiterate on so many things that
we touched on last time sure then maybe
a little bit more on like specifically
relationships okay that's great we did
gorge on relationships at all that's a
good idea yeah yeah okay a fantastic
idea great suggestions there and so I
think we have one other person in the
chat
do you want to introduce yourself
Tony X Tony Communications mic issues
okay oh all right so we'll see if if we
can get Tony to rejoin okay so um so I
think all fantastic ideas Aaron do you
want to just start by use kind of
mentioned that you wanted to reiterate a
couple of things do you want to just
take a stab at that what would you what
do you think it's important to reiterate
um I think it's just because yeah this
past week since the last dream I tried
once again to quit the yes resist the
addiction and I tried a different
approach this time where I just like
Richard said instead of focusing on
myself and the benefits that would get
to myself I thought more about the
others that uh we talked with before and
everyone that has been like sending
messages through the discord or the
twitch chat saying how much it helped
them how much they could relate to it or
maybe they had some other issue like
there and there's just more like that
companionship that sort of bond hanging
on to that almost like it was almost
like gripping on to a log while flowing
down a river and the river is like the
urge is just continually splashing on
you go as long as you have that float
you can sort of barely stay above the
surface until you get to dry land
that's actually some really scary
imagery I mean because I you know it's
not it's not like a life raft it's like
a log right it's so unstable the river
is just pounding you and it's kind of
like you're holding out and I'm not even
sure that success is guaranteed at the
end like that sounds like you know
failure is more inevitable than success
is that how it feels to you oh yeah yeah
for sure
I'm expecting relapse at some point or
another just because it's happened to me
so many times because I've tried
sometimes over the years but I'm going
to give it a very strong effort this
time and now that I have like being more
open about it and having like
companionship with it it's made it a
little bit easier but it's still of
course extremely extremely challenging
yeah so I'd like to just offer up
another topic for discussion well I mean
when I say another I mean I think
Richard sort of mentioned this already
but I think we should really talk about
this idea of relapse and quitting and
and you know what is it what is our goal
here and what does it mean to have these
expectations for yourself and now that
you're sort of putting is Richard kind
of mentioned you know there's sort of a
group Dharma here so like your success
or failure no longer just depends on you
because people are this is gonna sound
bizarre so that this dream is gonna be
full of like things that can be taken
out of context so people are watching
you not fapping right let's go people
people are watching you and now you have
an expectation to fulfill towards like
other people to kind of inspire them and
I think so I'd like to talk about that
and just what kind of pressure that puts
on you what kind of pressure relapse
puts on you what kind of pressure the
inevitability of relapse puts on you how
that pressure actually affects you
cognitively and does that actually like
you know how does that affect how does
the pressure of possibly relapsing
affect you relapsing or not relapsing
Richard um yeah I I kind of want to take
it on like I really want to put it on to
myself and because I want to get rid of
this and I'd love to have the support of
everyone here and everyone watching and
I know I do it's just it's it's just
difficult and but I want to take that on
I just I kind of like almost like in a
superhero sense like yeah take take it
on and like give it everything I can try
like just die trying I don't that just
seems so admirable to me and I'd love to
be a part of that but there's also you
know if like relapse comes then it just
like it comes to this point where it's
like oh Jesus Christ the superhero kind
of like failed the world he wasn't able
to save the world which is kind of scary
but at the same time I want to take it
on and that's kind of what I signed up
for joining the stream so I'm I'm ready
for it it's just the the stakes are
higher now yeah so how so the everyone's
counting on me
everyone's counting on me to do that so
let's talk about being a superhero okay
what help me understand or help us
understand and you know anyone can jump
in by the way it sort of it resonates
with me that Richard is kind of talking
about doing something superhuman right
like there's like there's like a part of
us that strives to like overcome and
achieve and be greater than what we are
and is that does that like does the idea
of becoming a superhero like no fat man
you know yeah yeah yeah that superhero
it's actually funny because my Dischord
name is Oh Superman so I've always been
a fan of Superman
being able to like just achieve great
things so uh how are you gonna come to
this idea that like I'm only human and I
can't be a superhero or like I don't
know what would I get am I putting
my expectations too high for myself
being like trying to strive for
like a superhero istic goal why don't
you ask your colleagues what do you guys
think what do y'all think about becoming
a superhero and is Richard putting too
high of an expectation on himself I
think it's a lot of pressure I think
it's a double-edged sword yeah going
yeah it's a fine line to walk because
the more pressure you put on yourself
when or if you do crack it or to
continue forward because you're gonna
fall that much farther so yeah we are
under a lot of pressure taking this on
and it's scary but it is at the same
time the pressure facing that pressure I
can see what you mean by like it's
almost uplifting and that when you do
triumph over like a really bad day where
your urges are like intense and you just
barely manage to make it through it's
very empowering and so it's it's kind of
difficult to navigate that fine line of
like not putting too much pressure on
yourself to where you can still like
function but you still want to like not
just given all the way what did you mean
by double-edged sword ghosts I meant
that it's in a sense can be seen as a
positive because the so of group dynamic
means that people are relying on you so
you feel like there's some element of
obligation it reminds me of what you
said about Dharma and it's hard to clean
your own room but when someone else
needs their own cleaned you can do at
the drop of a hat
it's like it's kind of in a sense easier
when there are people counting on you
but also there is that overwhelming
pressure that makes it more difficult
what do you think about what they have
to say Richard uh matches yeah I would
agree with them no you said something
you kind of like sort of tried to put
yourself in my shoes for a moment you
said are you gonna say something like
we're all just normal human like do you
remember you made those defensive
deflective statement yeah what was that
statement let's let's understand that
for a second do you got you guys all
heard that yeah I don't know I guess we
can kind of go into my dad sets really
high expectations I
he really has a big relationship with
word and if I say something I got to do
it and and I've always had you know
motivation problems sometimes when I say
I'm gonna you know an example would be
like if I say I'm gonna paint the garage
and I paint the garage but I don't
complete it all the way by the time I
said I was gonna do it there's just like
a big disconnect there's I just get a
lot of flack from him for that he just
doesn't like it mm-hmm
and and when you fail after ten days
what do you get from yourself
um just disappointment you get a lot of
flack from yourself a lot of [ __ ] yeah
where do you think you learned how to do
that
it's gotta come from them right like
think about that for a second so when we
beat ourselves up and I'm sure you guys
a beat yourselves up how do you let's
talk about that like how do you beat
yourself up
I caught a grin from bear well I like to
get stuck in my own head so that's a
really big thing for me and my conduct
coping mechanism I guess would be
masturbation and you know video games or
just trying to find something to to
clear my head and what happens when you
get stuck in your own head I get this
feeling of being really overwhelmed and
just don't really know what to do with
my I guess what is it that overwhelms
you ah just general thoughts I guess
more recently I've been in the Nene
stage since I just graduated and
graduations I'm graduating thank you you
thank you better than drop it out it's
easier yourself up for graduating and
then you know not having a job or
whatever but then like it's also easy to
just forget that you at least you
graduated but a lot of people actually
don't that's true that's true I also
have like a lot of pressure from my
friends and my family for for not being
where I should be I'm like I'm a little
behind in terms of my age versus
graduation than jobs and and all that
yeah okay I saw I saw that Tony managed
to connect but it seems that he is fled
so maybe if we if we can catch him we'll
give him a chance to introduce himself
it's how we going to get an evil cap so
I want to just pause for a second
because I have a feeling that we could
be talking about a lot of things that
don't relate to porn addiction I think
what you guys are talking about we could
sort of take things in a slightly
different direction so I'll just sort of
mention a couple of themes that I'm
hearing right so the the need the want
to be great sort of the need to be great
and I think that has something to do
with the sense of you know only a soup
because because when you guys are when I
imagine the image that Aaron was
describing which is like you know you're
hanging on to a log in a rushing river
and you know like you're barely staying
afloat and you're you're gonna drown
like when I think about that scenario I
don't think a normal human can fix that
right I think you have to be a superhero
to fix that and I think part of sort of
the call to be a superheroes because of
our perception about how insurmountable
our problems are like it feels super
like when I think about how like how is
Aaron gonna get saved like literally
Superman is gonna fly out of the sky and
like scoop him out of the walk that's
what's gonna happen right that's that's
how he gets it because there's a
waterfall and he's gonna about to go
over the edge and there are rocks down
below and it's like you know so there's
something about being a superhero that
has to do with just the problems you
guys face feel so large so it seems like
the only way to overcome them is to be
superhuman
and then and then something about you
know Richard is is you know voiced a
little bit of frustration with kind of
like this what are you just gonna say
like we have to just be normal like you
know there's a little bit of frustration
there so I wanna I want to try to dig
into that do and then I think you know
we've talked a fair amount about
motivation and sort of setting ourselves
up for success or failure holding
ourselves to high standards how we
handle ourselves when we do fail right
so like what do you guys think so
Richard started off this talk with and
Tony will give you a chance to introduce
yourself in just a second okay
so Tony just I mean sorry Richard
started off this conversation he kind of
said I went ten days without it sounds
like fapping and then I relapsed so he
views that as failure right Richard
that's a failure what are the rest y'all
think about that I've you and more is a
stumble than falling over like if you if
you imagine the journey is like a series
of hurdles it's more like you know you
took you cleanly got over ten and then
you kind of stumbled on like the 11th
but that doesn't mean that you've fallen
over and you have to start again
it just means you continue and that was
a bump in the road I think that's the
most helpful perspective because it
feels like this sort of guilt and shame
that builds with relapse can often sort
of push you can just erase all progress
you've made because you start to hate
yourself again and then that self-hatred
further fuels you feel like maybe you
know maybe I shouldn't get better maybe
I shouldn't get better maybe I should
just go back to where I was because I
deserve it
yeah so I think it's just helpful to try
and not feel guilt or shame just accept
that you made a mistake but it's a
stumble not other people have thoughts
yeah I - I guess meditation in that when
your mind does wander you don't force
yourself to get back in being centered
but you gently allow yourself to come
back and it's part of the process that
every time you are able to come back
that's he a rat right and you need
multiple repetitions to build that
muscle so it's part of the process and
you're only it would be I guess a newbie
mistake to think that the rule of the
game is to not relapse the proper game
is to stay in a good connection with
allowing yourself to have a good flow of
coming back as long as you can come back
in the long that's that's the long
that's the real game or at least a
higher level game so I notice bear
nodding but Tony you want to just take a
chance to introduce yourself thanks for
jumping in by the way uh thank you yes
my name is Tony what should you just
tell us a little bit about I mean if
you're comfortable you can just say I'm
Tony and that can be sufficient but you
know sometimes it can it's been helpful
for other people to hear a little bit
about what's bringing you here today and
maybe what you struggle with
yeah so I've been it's sometimes I care
about my I guess my tendency to like a
resort to porn and then that's been
going on and off since I I think mmm
I'm a great grade 5 grade 6 you know
what I was like 10 11 12 years old and
even more so ever since I got an
internet connection
and I feel like it's just something I
think that's the point is not the
problem itself is just a symptom and I
think it's just holding me back i
whatever the root causes the root
problem is what do you think it's a
symptom of avoidance
I think fighter seeking just shortcuts
just I hedonism I think I've what are
you avoiding I think emotional pain ego
pain responsibility mostly those three I
think that's what comes to mind right
this moment what do you think about that
bear so like in my opinion with Richards
I guess instance is that when he does I
guess relapse into masturbation that's
that's not a failure it's just it would
be a failure in my opinion if he was
ignoring responsibilities or trying to
overcome some some type of emotions you
know but I agree with Tony like
wholeheartedly actually
Richard what's it like to hear other
people say that they don't really view
you as a failure my first reaction I
don't know I I I'm not I don't want to
say I'm super hard on myself but I just
I made this way to where when I started
this journey I failed other people I let
a lot of people down and that's what
kind of is getting to me because I
wanted again I want it to be that
superhuman and you know take this on and
show other people that it's possible
it's just I see it as a slight mist mess
up in the road that was ahead of me not
like with ghosts instant with when go
set the hurdling when you kind of
stumbled but you didn't exactly fall you
don't have to start all over again
you could still kind of I do see it as a
stumble but I still look at it as if I
failed everyone watching and it's just
it sucks I mean I wish I I wanted to be
the person that came on stream and
showed everyone it was possible and I
don't know emotions they're starting to
rise yeah I see that
so first of all do you guys see how
Richard for the first time and all the
time we've started we've been speaking
is starting to not make sense but you
guys see that like you can don't talk
you know I'll see what I'm saying like
his his words like so he because he's
sort of acknowledging so what I'm
pointing out is that Richard Richard I
don't mean that as an insult what I mean
is that there's a part of you that
acknowledges and can view things the way
that other people are viewing them and
there's also this other part of you that
is complete like doesn't give two [ __ ]
about that
yeah it's steep steep routed yep it's
correct looked and absolutely right so
when other people are encouraging you
how are you feeling I always say that
again sorry other people are basically
like trying to encourage and support you
right how do you feel when they do that
I guess I guess what I would say is like
the superhero mentality has two sides of
the coin and when there's failure its
catastrophic and when there's
encouragement like the reach when I'm
taking on the superhuman feat to show
everyone it's possible I get energy from
the people encouraging me but when when
I stumble and fail it still hurts it
hurts a lot
yeah so I'm gonna even keep him on as
weak to kryptonite though say that again
sorry goes can you say that Superman is
a weak to kryptonite everyone how's that
kryptonite even the superhero
yeah what does it like to hear that
Richard that's it's hard to hear but
it's a tough pill to swallow but I'm I'm
on the path to swallow it I'm gonna try
to put some words into your mouth so I
think you sort of hinted at this that
when things are going well and other
people encourage you it makes you feel
good right it fuels you and after you
perceive that you've failed and other
people encourage you I think you
actually feel worse
yeah yeah it was hard hearing everyone
saying it's hard hearing that it was
just a stumble when I'm trying to make
it this ultimate fail yeah right so
let's just notice that for a second that
despite other people trying to help you
and support you and I I think you know
that these guys care about you right
like yeah absolutely so how does that
work where like when when we when we do
something let's say we mess up and it's
unclear how much you've messed up or if
this was a stumble or you [ __ ] up
catastrophic ly in the world is gonna
end
like let's just table that for a second
and just understand that we it's unclear
but what do you guys think about you
know what's going on when when someone
is receiving support was when people are
trying to support another human being
and that makes the other human being
feel worse have you guys ever been in
that situation yeah so how do how does
that work like what's going on there
it's like having the opposite effect I
don't know I like there's an element of
trying to just lone-wolf it figure it
out myself
I don't yeah for me it's pride I come
back to the ego because I don't my
initial reaction is I don't like to
accept help when I when part of me or a
lot of me feels like I can do it myself
and to accept help means that there's
something wrong with me or it feels like
that way I see a lot of people nodding
yeah yeah I think we relate a lot I
think
what's that like
cool feels kind of cool feels it's
interesting you know cuz I mean part of
the reason why I didn't mind opening up
about fluoridation is just because I
know it's more and more common now so I
feel like it's not only I'm not alone
yes very houses yes yeah Terry Crews
that big time
big time yeah so let me ask you
something this is a little bit more
directed at Richard and if you guys feel
like this is kind of monopolizing our
discussion please let me know but since
I think relapse this is all related to
relapse okay so Richard when these
people say it's just a stumble I would
venture that there's a part of your mind
that understands that but that you
actually feel like they don't understand
you as well when they encourage you and
you feel I would say elements of that
but it's more so I'm just pushing that
away yep
I'm pushing their input away I'm just
trying to UM why are you pushing their
input away and other people can answer
to if they can relate to Richards
situation why let's put it this way why
do you guys let's give Richard a second
let's ask the group why do you guys
think he's pushing you away because we
don't understand his full situation
maybe because you can only you can only
ever truly be your own certain see in
life I think there's probably multiple
reasons but I think that it's really
difficult to accept help when help can
feel unstable and temporary and it's
very easy to go into the shell a feeling
like you need to be just completely made
of steel because you're the only one
you'll ever be able to rely on so it's
possible maybe that's an element but I'm
not sure
yeah being able to stand on your own two
feet is really important to a lot of
people it's like it's been said before
accepting help kind of acknowledges the
fact that there is something like so
wrong with you
that it's unable to be solved by
yourself
and that can be very difficult to admit
yeah there's also a kind of weird double
standard the way you think of help as
this thing that other people should get
but when it comes to yourself you expect
absolutely everything you expect to be
superhuman basically and it's a
completely sort of irrational thing but
even knowing it's irrational it doesn't
it doesn't remove it it's it's still
there persist
so Richard out of what people have said
what resonates with you or if anything
resonates I said it earlier before but
like this lone wolf mentality work
there's like a certain level of pride
that comes in when I just figure it out
myself
you know I have all these problems
arising and then I being the superhuman
self is able to just figure it out
myself
and it's just it's hard it's hard
hearing advice from other people because
I I'm on I feel like I'm on this journey
alone but I'm at the impact of others
trying to I'm stumbling again I'm on
this like you've always sold your own
problems yes yes no I would say
primarily yes that's yeah that's why I
expected there why did you expect to
hear that um I don't know that's sort of
just how I feel in it it seemed like I
saw a pattern and it just made sense
that that would be the case because if
you learned that you're the only one you
can ever rely on then that's just how
you continue through life yeah so I'm
noticing this theme that's emerging
right that nofap is a single-player game
right and and that I mean that we talk
about superheroes we talk is it okay
that I make jokes like is that okay like
does that yeah I'm hedging it okay going
for maximum number of clippable moments
but so but seriously like that that's
what we cuz like seriously I mean it is
right so like when we think about
masturbation like masturbation is like a
solo exercise the demons that you guys
struggle with are are like internal that
like all in here like it's you know it's
not about the external world it's not
about other people even going back to
Aaron's analogy which I'm gonna probably
do a thousand more times like he's
talking about one guy holding on to one
log in a stream it's not like a crap
like it's
like a crowd of people and like the
Titanic it's just like you alone and
then the other thing that's kind of
crazy is that you know III know that you
guys feel ashamed for failing but the
other really crazy thing is that I think
if we got if we actually stopped and
looked at it you guys are incredibly
self-reliant and you're incredibly
resilient and you have high reserves of
willpower and that what you guys have
done is adopt a strategy in life that in
is like a single-player kind of like
you're you're playing like it's like
you're making an RPG at the beginning
and you're gonna do like a single-player
like single character playthrough it's
like normally it's a party RPG but you
guys have decided to do you know one
character hog mode absolutely that's
what it feels like right you guys living
are you guys playing game are you guys
playing the game of life on hardmode
iron man yeah absolutely absolutely
right yeah
no save scumming no reloading just
what's that like I'm barely like
leveling up I'm like not even getting to
the next level sometimes I you know have
a good kill streak but for the most part
in the long run I I can do way better
than this so I think that says it all
right if I'd say there's one thing that
I think all of you guys overwhelmingly
agree with it's I can do way better than
this yeah where'd you guys get that idea
what's that where does that come from
social pressures say more about that
bear I mean I guess culturally my my
family is always all about trying to me
trying to get me to get my doctorate or
or just be successful and a monetary
value but not emotionally I just kind of
weighs a heavy burden on its own yeah do
you mind if I ask what your ethnicity is
my parents are from Pakistan okay yeah
so I mean I don't know if you guys so
South Asian parents and East Asian
parents especially for people who
immigrated from our country of origin
tend to be very very status oriented
they really believe that and I'm sure I
mean this is true of not just those
cultures but dr. Angelou yeah right so
and and it's tough because what they do
is they make you feel like your value as
a human being is related to things that
you check off on a list like bear have
you gotten your doctorate yet no I'm
actually about to start my Master's
burger oh my goodness that's just
completely unacceptable yeah yeah right
and and they they make you feel like I
mean that's that's your measure of value
as a human being like it's not that a
human being can be more than that it's
just you know the measure of value of
your degree for me like I can feel like
my inner critic and my image of I guess
the external critic is like it's so
simple just don't touch your peepee you
know and how can you how can you mess
that up you know so I think that I left
that inner critic unchecked for so many
years that you know until it more
recently I've been now we get the sense
that we're not alone
yeah I still sort of even hearing that I
still sort of maintain the idea that is
like solo playing for me it's just sort
of really deeply ingrained even though I
can intellectually resonate with that
the feeling within me is still this is
solo player yeah so what do you guys so
in a sense it is right because
ultimately I think when we think about
especially addictions it's we kind of
think a little bit about you know
ultimately it's an it's an internal
journey like no one is gonna slap a
chastity belt on you right it struggles
that you have to you know deal with on a
on a day to day basis but at the same
time I think that there is some amount
of you know there's there's a different
kind of balance that has to be struck so
I think at the end of the day these are
you know it's it's like the only person
that is how can I say this you know at
the end of the day the important thing
is that Tony not touch his peepee right
like it's not about us not touching his
peepee it's about Tony not touching his
peepee and so and so that there is there
is a certain amount of single player
earnest to this like absolutely so any
kind of substance or addiction that we
deal with ultimately is like is gonna
have a deep single like single player
kind of component to it because no one
else is gonna fix this for you it's not
about other people fixing you and at the
same time I think that as people have
kind of mentioned you know the way that
you treat yourself is like different
from the way that you treat other people
and something about that I think is like
incredibly toxic right so like Tony was
talking a little bit about the way that
he left left his inner critic unchecked
I think it's a beautiful way of putting
it in the case of bear it sounds like a
lot of his criticism is not actually
coming from internally it's coming from
externally but I'd say also in bears
case that all of those external
statements have created a standard that
you measure yourself against right so
you accept their premises and they
become your premises it's internalized
absolutely so there is something
incredibly singleplayer about this so my
next question kind of goes to primary I
mean sort of Richard but anyone can
answer so Richard sort of he played a
little game where he pretended to be me
for a second and and he sort of said
like you kind of envisioned almost like
what I was gonna say so what do you guys
think my response is to what we're
talking about so like so it's like a
soft spot for me trying to defend it
defend what this idea that I'm not a
superhero that I that I do have
kryptonite that's what you think I'm
gonna say no that's what I think I sorry
yeah that's okay so I think yeah poor
Tony what I think when I think you're
gonna say now is that a it's not exactly
a single-player game now you there's
components of single-player mode but
it's like all of us are playing
single-player mode beside each other so
the rules exactly tutorials we can share
our experience we can route each other
Wow we could hold each other accountable
because it's
it's your own game but you're playing
amongst brothers who actually for the
most part know what you're going through
yeah that's that's my inference yeah so
I think that's a beautifully put
I'm gonna add sort of another layer to
it so I'm gonna just talk for a second
about the superhero complex because I
think that's something that I certainly
have felt from time to time like very
deeply I think it's something that
resonates with our community a lot and
so is it okay if I just kind of offer
some thoughts about that so first thing
is like you know I get the sense that a
lot of people feel like they have to
make up for lost time and in a sense
like what you've got to do is like the
the the more screwed up you are the more
Herculean you have to be to sort of fix
it
so I remember like when I was failing
out of college and also had had like a
bad GPA so I graduated with like a 2.5 I
felt like the only way that I could hold
my head up with pride was to like do
something that was superhuman like go to
Harvard for medical school for example
right so like the more behind you feel
about yourself
the higher the standard that you set to
kind of like make things even does that
make sense
I'm gonna jump in and ask a question
yeah has anyone here watched the movie
limitless okay it kind of feels like
that in the sense that like you're like
at the start of the movie he's a failed
writer and then he takes this pill
unleashes his genius and he becomes God
basically you sort of feel like you have
to do that yeah right so you feel like
you have to does it like so the more
behind you feel in life the more messed
up you feel the more it requires
something like really really huge to fix
that
right because and I think this kind of
goes back to just the struggle and like
Aaron's like imagery at the beginning
which is the size of the struggle that
you guys are dealing with is just so big
and insurmountable that an ordinary
human can't do it what do you guys think
about that well I think another part of
it for at least for me is that sometimes
my ego feels like you know what I am
superhuman I'm just gonna allow myself
to [ __ ] up because I know I can catch up
later
you know I can fix this later you know
I'm I'm a smart guy
I have a lot of potential I'm just gonna
solve this problem later I know I could
compensate for it I know a miracle I can
pull off miracles and I can do this
later so that's another part of it I'm
not sure if other people relate to that
it's like it's hundreds oh yeah I see a
lot of people nodding when you guys go
back and it goes back and forth between
the say shame and then pride so maybe
two two sides of the same coin yeah what
do y'all think for me at least I guess I
was at one extreme when I was younger
where I just continually thought that
like I I had a massive ego I was at the
top of the world it was one and big
ambitious I still have extremely big
ambitions for this have a different
perspective on it now it's more like I'm
scum but I guess I sort of think of it
as anything that I'm able to accomplish
as someone as low as I am if I can do it
then maybe I can demonstrate to others
that anything is possible if someone is
bass and Lobos meet can do it as well
um I kind of resonate with the feeling
of like I'm smart I can do this later
and it almost feels like manic
depression where you can oscillate
between feeling like I can't achieve
anything in life - I can become God and
you can just keep swinging back and
forth like that that's like when I was
younger my my teacher when I was about
probably 9 or 10 suggested that I be
moved up either 2 or 3 years in school
and she didn't want to move me further
because it would be disruptive because
of the age difference like with
teenagers but I refused because I was
kind of afraid of that
and she wanted me to go to Oxford and I
feel like I'm now at a point where I've
failed that but there's still a part of
me that thinks I could put a miracle out
of the bag and it's this constant
oscillation between thinking I'm gonna
be homeless or like a multi-millionaire
and there's no in-between like it's just
one or the other all the time
so Toni's laughing
yeah absolutely I'm either gonna you
know become not even a billionaire but
like just partially like a Messiah
Complex and or just oh my god I
I just want to fade into nothingness and
you know if a hint of nihilism comes in
when I'm at hello and then my sia
complex when I'm at my high and that
oscillation between there is as real and
and then sometimes the lows get lower
because okay
I've been oscillating between these two
modes for how many years now and if I'm
being almost honest with myself maybe I
do need help
so can't do this myself okay so we've
come far away from porn addiction but I
think this is really important to talk
about so I mean I hope people who are
watching find this useful so I'm gonna
try to offer once again a little bit
more kind of like of my opinion about
this subject so the first question is
like so let's let's just define what
we're talking about so I think that when
you guys we're talking about porn
addiction this particular problem
recruits part of our psychology which is
this like complete failure versus
superhuman amazing person like Messiah
genius versus you know no one who's
sitting at home playing video games and
jerking off
so this is a part of us that doesn't
just rely like it's not just porn
addiction that taps into this right it's
like professional expertise
it's dating life which we should
probably switch to dating in a few
minutes
you know it's it's like making money
it's being respected it's no FAP it's
like all of this stuff where and and you
guys are noticing that it you oscillate
quickly between these two things whether
the two things actually seem to be like
really connected right so it's it's it's
almost like you know sort of saying like
oh I keep on oscillating between being
awake and being asleep at night and it's
like yeah well that's because like
sleeping and waking fullness are like
fundamentally connected so these are two
modes that you operate between it's the
first question is do you guys think that
playing this game of sometimes feeling
like a genius and sometimes feeling like
a piece of [ __ ] like is that a good
strategy to live life does it work so
far okay so then the question is how do
we free ourselves of what I call the
problem of escalating impossibility
which is that the further you fall the
more you escalate what you need to do to
make yourself kind of feel better so
like at the beginning it's a little bit
impossible and then after you a year
goes by it becomes even more impossible
and even more impossible so in in ghosts
case he had a chance to skip a couple of
grades and then it became Oxford and now
it's like he has to do something even
bigger right
so how do we free ourselves from that
any idea it feels like it feels like
arrogance maybe a play somewhere yes
absolutely it can it can feel like um
I'm gonna give myself all these debuffs
and watch what I can do
yeah watch me succeed even with the D
puffs yeah it feels kind of like some
showmanship and it's like making your
life harder than it has to be just to
prove a point
yep but I'm not entirely sure that comes
from life go for Tony I for myself I
think my extreme side thinks that okay
I just have to change everything I'm
doing because all that I've been doing
has gotten me the same results so I have
to do everything differently or I think
my why's itself kind of this thinking
maybe I just have to change one key
thing and it's very I do it very gently
and you know I almost be effortless okay
if I if I just find the right thing that
I have to change so I'm gonna go back to
ghosts so what we'll put a pin in what
Tony said which is essentially change
everything versus change one thing and
ghosts you kind of said that you don't
know where that arrogance comes from
where do you think it comes from
I think there's like a really just vast
supply of anger that's stored and it's
like almost I don't have to what it okay
so you guys get that like the part of
you that wants to be super human wants
to make up for the rest of you right
like that's why you you you are you
switch between being like ego to like
like super genius brilliant capable of
anything and like nothing so that you
guys see how there's like actually
balance there and the worse you feel
about yourself the more you begin to
fantasize about what you're capable of
so that's your your minds way of
actually protecting you from that shame
so it starts to build up this kind of
fantasy that you can accomplish this and
you can do this and you're gonna show in
and ghosts also mention let your gonna
like show something to someone that part
of this like you know I'm gonna debuff
myself and then I'm gonna do it and then
I'm gonna show them who's them
yeah it's kind of bright sure like who
are you who are you trying to do that
for what are you trying that's a
demonstration do you guys get that the
goals that you set yourself are a
demonstration and a demonstration has an
audience right it's not actually like
just internal you're actually you know
no fapping for everybody else right so
what what are you trying to demonstrate
and who are you trying to demonstrate it
to maybe could be for just looking for
someone to like give you recognition and
affection that you have been like
missing out on for a long time
okay so recognition from others and what
will that do if you get recognition from
others there's the shameful part and
then there's the Massiah part right
there's the person whose level zero and
there's a person whose level 100 if you
get recognition from others who does
that help it reinforces our image of the
level 100 Pro but it feels like it helps
the little zero absolutely so you guys
see like the two are linked right
because the person who's really hungry
for recognition man you could say
they're both hungry for recognition and
then there's one other person so like so
when we demonstrate to the rest of the
world that we're capable of succeeding
despite all of our difficulties
so that's important to show the rest of
the world and then who else are we
trying to show our case absolutely right
so you guys like that's what you want
you guys get that like on the deepest
level it's not actually about other
people it's it's like Richard said I
mean he wants to be able to do it by
himself and and he wants to be you know
he wants to be an example to others but
like so I don't know I don't know how to
say this beyond just saying it he wants
to be an example to others the focus of
that statement is actually not on other
people
the focus he's not saying I want to help
others he wants to be an example for
others it's actually a deeply
egotistical statement yeah right
like you want to be the inspiration for
them and there's there's a part of that
that is absolutely altruistic and
absolutely designed like wanting to help
others the problem is that there's this
other weird complex that kind of like
hijacks that a little bit like it's not
about helping others it's about being
the person who is Superman like he's not
trying to trick like if you know he
could very easily just lie to everyone
and say that he's doing it and inspire
people that way right
like he can just tell everyone look
everyone I'm doing it you can do it too
just live his entire life as a live
positivity and you can maybe inspire
tons of people and so I think it's good
that you guys don't do that right
because I think the other crazy thing
here is I'm gonna ask other people so do
you think that Richard if Richard had
after last week been transformed and
become Superman
versus Richard stumbling after ten days
and then we continue to watch Richards
you know growth over over time which one
do you think is actually gonna help
people more definitely the ladder
yeah the stumbling because if if people
see the example where it's just
instantaneous it's like look guys I did
it I did this superhuman feat and they
attempt it and then based on bull then
they feel like that different and that
they've failed in some way I say see a
stumble
success story they say oh this person's
human and they succeeded therefore I can
do it sit right because here's the thing
if if Richard wakes up one day in a
Superman anything that he discovers
about his life in his playbook doesn't
apply to anyone else
because they're not they're not supermen
buying exceptional means that everyone
else isn't is not everyone can be
exceptional yes or yeah but I think
everyone can be exceptional but I I
think we're talking about the same thing
right so I I think the first thing to
understand is that you know when it
comes to this kind of stuff so like all
of us are flawed and none of us are
supermen so Richard is right in terms of
you know what he hypothesized I was
gonna say but I think the trick here is
not letting go of the Superman it's
actually letting go of the idea that
you're a failure because the Superman
arises out of the idea that you're a
[ __ ] right so what you really need to
do if you want to be free from this
whole complex is don't try to be
ordinary just just understand that like
stumbling is a part of life right and
like Tony was kind of saying that like
you know the game the goal of meditation
is not to have a still mind the goal of
meditation is to be able to bring your
mind back to a point where you want it
to every time your mind wanders and you
bring it back to where you want it to
that's doing a push-up because you're
strengthening the capacity for you to
control your mind
and it's like excelling in spire floors
rather than being flawless exactly so so
if I have to pick a strategy in life
it's not perfection it's damage control
so just think about this like if you're
trying to like play a game like you know
there are different kinds of builds you
can do I don't know if you got I play
RPGs so like you know there's like
evasion tanking which is the idea that
you have a low HP pool and you never get
hit and then there's also like damage
mitigation with a healer like evasion
tanking is like a super high-risk
high-reward kind of strategy because if
you get a hit once you're dead
the more reliable strategy is learning
damage control
so to accept that you're gonna [ __ ] up
and learn how to fix it so I'd say that
you know a lot of my success comes from
the basic idea that I'm gonna just kind
of suck at life and that that's okay and
that I can learn and I can grow and I
can improve so Richard says that I
failed after ten days I've been doing my
best to you know put my psychiatrist
face on and not actually show my emotion
but there's a part of me that's like
that's amazing man you went ten days
without jerking off yeah so like can we
just like pause to just think about that
for a second like if you skydive man
boom if you school like what if you
screw up once every ten days when it
comes to masturbation that's actually
just a normal amount of masturbation or
even less normal a naughty percent
success rate like that's what you're
looking for you're not looking for
celibacy I mean maybe you are no fab
right so like whatever y'all's goals are
but like like it this is the other thing
so people think I'm gonna just talk for
a second about sobriety and and relapse
and all that kind of crap we can talk
about this too but I'm just gonna share
some thoughts so like you know people
don't get sober overnight even though
that's how they perceive it so like what
happens when you go to an a a meeting is
like you know you see a guy who's like
yeah I'm here for my one-year chip and
other dudes there for their five-year
chip and so what people look at is they
look at someone and they see five years
of sobriety that started one like five
years ago on the day they look at one
year of sobriety that started one year
ago and that's our perception of success
because success is being sober for a
year for five years and the dude who's
five years sober do you guys know how
old he is 55 you guys been to a meetings
like there a lot of old dudes at AAA
meetings right okay so it's worthwhile
to go to an a a meeting like once in
your life I think it's a wonderfully
inspirational experience probably one of
my best experiences from that school
actually and so the interesting thing is
that like you know sobriety is something
that you practice so when I work with
people what I see is like okay they've
been using for 18 months and then they
go like three months of sobriety and
then they relapse and they feel awful
about themselves and we work through
that and then they go nine months
without using and then they relapse and
they feel awful about that over time the
duration between their relapses
increases and the severity of their
relapses and duration of their relapses
actually goes down
so there are some times where I really
like stop and think because I feel like
should I actually so either I've even
even patients that I'm considered sort
of terminating with so like not firing
but sort of saying hey I don't think I
can help you because you keep on
relapsing and so as a provider I stop
and I think like okay I'm not just not
getting through to this person but when
I actually stop and I like go through my
notes I realize oh this guy has had two
relapses in the last 24 months and for
the five years before that they were
using pretty much every day so like
understand that relapse is a part of it
but what you need to look at is like how
long does the relapse last how bad is it
and how much how quickly can you kind of
get back on the wagon does that make
sense yeah and so you guys are gonna
[ __ ] up but like that's normal like
you're you're learning you're like
learning how to control this thing and
they're gonna be periods of times where
you guys are gonna do a good job at it
and they're gonna be periods of times
that you're gonna do a bad job at it and
there are gonna be times where you do a
good job and something really
unfortunate is gonna happen in your life
that is going to emotionally wear on you
and then your capacity for like
willpower and discipline is gonna get
tanked because you're dealing with all
this emotional crap right so like the
first question that pops into my I don't
think there's actually true but you know
I someone like Richard I'd be really
careful about like the way that your dad
judges you and whether that relates to
you fapping and when I talked to out
like some of you other guys like it
sounds like there are other things that
go on like Tony sort of says he thinks
it's a symptom of a problem
when we talked to bear that too is like
his way of getting out of his like head
in his analysis paralysis and his
feelings of like shame for not being
what his like cultural group wants him
to be and so if we really think about it
like it's not just the fapping it's like
all this other crap in the real solution
is to deal with all of those things
right because if bear is like securing
the person he is if he learns how to
train his mind a little bit better if
Tony not only stops trying to change
everything all at once and then Tony's
trying to change one thing at a time
what Tony really needs to learn how to
do is change nothing right so Tony needs
to accept where he is and that mistakes
are gonna be made and that he's exactly
where he's supposed to be and that over
time he can change his life but that
fundamentally there's nothing wrong with
him so if you feel like you have to
change something that means that
something's not right but this is
important to understand you can only be
like I don't know if this is this is
gonna make no sense okay so you guys can
only be the things that you are you
can't be anyone else like bear you can't
be in a doctoral program right now like
it's just not possible like like reality
is like one thing a reality is not
actually possibilities reality is not
like reality is just what it is does
that make sense
look I know this is gonna sound weird
can you reader iterate on the
possibilities reality is not
possibilities yes are you guys right now
like you can't be anywhere except for
where you are like it is literally
impossible for you to be anything but
who you are where you are when you are
in this moment only then now there's no
actual future there's no past it's only
there now yeah and the present is the
only place in which you have agency you
can't change the past by thinking about
it and you can't change the future but
you only have agency to change things in
the exact Karma
yes and so since you let so this is
gonna sound absolutely crazy but since
you do not have the power to go into the
past and change your decisions you
actually have no power to be except for
where you are
that's like nearly impossible
Oh God just to share my experience I
every time I'm reminded of that I can
take a deep breath and accept that and
then maybe you know it could be an hour
later or a day later then I lose that
that that mindset of just allowing
myself to be me
so I I in a way I relate that to
relapsing every time I forget that I all
I need to do is just be myself
right now that's a win but then when I
forget that that's to me it's like
parallel to a relapse yep yeah because
because what so the thing that that
results in relapse so when you are able
to be where you are now you enter sort
of like a non-judgmental state you're
free from a lot of the things that you
turn to pornography to protect you from
feelings of shame just wanting to
relieve what's going on in your head
like so sometimes just the process in
your head can be just so burdensome and
just sucks it's like you know it's like
so I used to hate PE class because it
was just dumb and it was like I would
just run in a circle for like 30 minutes
and I was like not very athletic and
part of the other problem was I was
younger than everyone else in my grade
so you know it's like seven and was
playing like sports with eight-year-olds
like you're at a huge disadvantage and I
just never understood that so I thought
I was just bad at it sports and things
like that but like PE just sucked and it
felt like I was just like it just felt
torturous like I'm just running around
for like half an hour and it's just
awful I don't feel good physically I
don't feel good mentally and and you're
just in your head and it just feels like
really really burdensome and you just
want it to stop and then along comes
porn addiction or video games or any
number of other or drugs
that can make it stop right and so why
wouldn't you use it because you just
want to stop what's that whatever is
going on in your head I mean what's
going on in your head is coming from a
couple of places the first is you know I
was saying like you know the problem
isn't fixing the Messiah the problem is
letting go of feeling ashamed of
yourself like if you can be comfortable
with the person that you are today you
don't need anything to make you feel
better right if you can be what other if
you can tell yourself what other people
in this chat are telling you if you can
Richard if you can start channeling the
voice of these folks instead of your dad
right if you can talk to yourself in
that way
then it becomes easier to be the person
that you are and if you can like if you
can be tranquil in the moment then the
need for porn addiction goes down not
saying it's just all cured right because
they're also like habits and other kinds
of like like neurons play but I I think
that's really I mean all this stuff
comes down to just being comfortable
with where you are and accepting that
just because you've made mistakes in
life just because you didn't jump ahead
to grades just because you're not an
adduct role program just because you
didn't go to Oxford just because you
didn't finish cleaning the garage on
time or any number of other things right
that like actually you're not in a
stream holding on to a log you're in a
kiddie pool and you can just put your
feet on the ground and you can get out
of the water but that's not what it
feels like can I interrupt you really
yeah of course um so I was yesterday for
the Miss gift stream you were talking
about ADHD and how he had certain
tendencies like the need to be funny
when he feels stupid is strengthening
that went what's the wind I or Vetta
I ever yeah and so I'm trying to think
of it now how I'm using this kind of
like superhero complex and you said
something that I stopped you on it's
reality
you can't you can't live in possibility
you can only live in reality when I'm in
those tough moments when like let's say
when I get urges I like do this thing
where you know how like the superhero
complex there's the flip coin there's
that there's a superhuman and then
there's the the level zero screw-up and
in my strengthening so like how misc if
was strengthening his relationship with
his ire Vetta like using that tendency
over and over again am i doing that by
living in that possibility when I'm when
I'm in this when I'm in this urge state
and I live into the possibility of being
perfect and being a superhuman am i
reinforcing that complex when I live
into that possibility
absolutely so in my opinion yes so I
think the key thing that's why we
started with so like when you when we
think about ourselves as a superhuman
that comes with the other side you guys
see that because a superhuman is born
out of shame and that's why if you hear
what everyone is saying everyone talks
about Oscillation no one here has said
oh I feel half of it but I don't feel
the other half like just think about
that for a second there's no look
without lying exactly right so this is
the concept of something in sanskrit
called Advait Vedanta which means non
dualism that duality is fundamentally
false and all that is is what is right
you're not Richard you're not good
you're not bad you're just you
you're not sufficient you're not
insufficient you're just you right like
like the only thing that you are is like
what you are and where you are and
that's all there is and so in this
moment you either have the capacity to
resist the urge or you don't have the
capacity to resist the urge and you have
to be careful because if you have an
addictive brain your addictive brain is
gonna say oh yeah I don't have the
capacity to resist the urge and then you
notice that and you recognize okay is
that the addictive brain that's talking
or do I really have the capacity to
resist the urge and then you realize
that whether you have the capacity to
resist the urge or not is dependent on
you because capacity is about the future
it's not about the now it's a potentials
thing which is it's a potential state
which is yes and if I had to ask you
Richard you know like how did you go ten
days without fapping or watching porn or
whatever you know like mmm oh this is
great yeah I was I just filled my day
with doing stuff and then by the end of
the day I was already so exhausted that
I just went to bed so like like you see
how that has no there's no capacity
there's no potential that is just doing
mm-hmm what you filled your days with
stuff that's your solution right that
you engage in the present time and time
and time again and I don't know what
happened on day ten so there could be
all kinds of yeah yeah I guess there's
an element of like I was just exhausted
I didn't like when I was doing stuff
beforehand on the tenth day I didn't
have that energy to do stuff and then
what I did is I just I was just out of
energy I don't know yeah so and like
that sounds like so that sounds
forgivable to me now I don't know
exactly what a relapse looks like for
you guys right so like sometimes and
this is where you know how okay is it to
relapse I think it depends on what a
relapse looks like so I mean I I'm an
addiction psychiatrist in my day job so
I work with people who you know their
relapses look bad like and fatally I've
had two people I've worked with in the
last year have passed away unfortunately
and and so like it's relapses can be bad
and in your case like what does a
relapse look like like what relapses
look like for you guys for me it's just
like anywhere between a wasted
hour to three hours and just a bad
feeling afterwards and then just wanting
to be alone afterwards then not wanting
to be productive afterwards
and not wanting to be social afterwards
for how long so we have the the overall
effect including the relapse itself and
the shameful afterglow anywhere between
an hour to the rest of the day yeah okay
it feels like the definition is really
subjective and it's kind of I feel like
you just have to be honest with your in
a sense of I feel like you sort of just
know whether you've relapsed or not but
you can lie to yourself and kind of
rationalize that something wasn't
relapse with really arbitrary metrics I
guess so it's just all about honesty
with yourself err did you want to say
something
you've been yeah relapse for me it's it
can be wildly variant but like it can be
as Tony said where it's just like
happens and then there's like a period
of shamefulness and then uh when like
for example my depression was really bad
it can like end up where the shame like
feeds into negative loop thoughts cycle
and then like things get very mentally
serious for me and then you can get very
possibly lethal for me yeah right so I I
think you know that there is a lot of
individuality to this and also frankly a
wide spectrum of severity right so I
mean if you also suffer from depression
or whatnot like it's you got to be
careful because all this stuff like
feeds on like they're all buddies like
this is the problem is like you guys are
playing a single-player game but like
your demons are playing multiplayer
like you guys are so low cueing and
they're like a five stack and it [ __ ]
sucks
if the solo carry yeah like you're
playing with a bunch of these pubs who
like you'd rather have bots on your team
and then they're you know like your
depression being for an addiction and
your video game addiction and your you
know shame from not having a job and
your shame from not having a girlfriend
like the five of them queue up and then
like you know I don't know if you guys
have seen this like I play dota but like
when people's like you know when they're
like the pictures next to their names
like line up to form an image you guys
see Matt and like that's when you know
like when it's like the bare bones of
your old Kim Jang Geun or something and
then and you know they're also like
different they're different ranks right
so like some people have bad depression
so it's like some like you know some
high level player who's smurfing I used
to play overwatch with a couple of
buddies of mine who were pros and they
would just it would be a [ __ ] joke
when I would play tracer and he just
killed their entire team over and over
and over and over and over again and so
the result was that I never learned how
to play overwatch he would literally
like be like 27 and Oh at the end of the
game he would just give all of them
and so I still don't know how to play
overwatch but it's it's tough right so I
think when it when it comes down to it
you know if I have to summarize so the
first thing to understand is that be
careful about your fantasies in your
Superman because is bizarre as that
sounds like the reason that you guys
believe in your Superman is because you
guys actually are capable of that
because Superman has existed for you and
you've gone the extra mile and you've
done things that are actually superhuman
and so on the one hand I want you guys
to understand that you know a lot of
people think about teams is there like
like who you are like you try to define
by your weakest link like that's what we
do we define ourselves by our low points
in life but what you should really do is
define yourself by your high point
because that's actually what you're
capable of right and it's not about the
future it's not about hope it's not
about fantasy it's about what you've
actually done before if you can go ten
days without fapping you can go ten days
again if you can go three years without
a drink you can go three years again
like if you've done it once you can do
it again that's something that we know
right like that's a statement of fact
you can do it again the second thing is
to be aware that like you have to let go
of your Superman complex and you have to
let go of your level zero newb you have
to let go of the person who's [ __ ] up
because like as crazy as it sounds like
you couldn't have been different before
right you're not the person that you are
today you're every day makes you uxp up
a little bit and you like learn things
and you level up your skill like that's
what happens in life do you guys like
Remember Who y'all were five years ago
like you remember that kid yeah like
that kid didn't know anything right you
learned so much and just because you
don't have a doctorate or like your life
- isn't moving forward in kind of a very
noticeable way doesn't mean that you
aren't getting better and this kind of
goes back to this idea of the ten year
overnight success so like you know
people think of all of these like
institutions as overnight successes and
I mean if you just look at them you know
slates in progress
absolutely so like a good example that I
use with is Airbnb you guys know what
Airbnb is so air B&B launched four times
they had three launches that were just
complete failures and then their fourth
launch was wildly successful like even
when it comes to healthy gamer it's like
you know I used to get together on back
in 2000 the end of 2017 and I started
working with gamers on discord there
were like 10 of us we worked together
for a year we were very very small and
it was still fun and it was like really
enjoyable and we helped people a lot and
then over the past couple of weeks like
literally weeks we've blown up but like
this has been a story that's like
decades in the making and you guys just
see like so this is where you know it
also comes back to being Superman so
something that I try very hard to do is
like actually avoid the Messiah Complex
of myself so people think I'm special my
whole point is that I'm not
right like the reason that I can say
this stuff is because you know I used to
play playstation and jerk off all the
time when I was a freshman in college
like that's just what every day was it's
like skipping class jerking off playing
PlayStation and apparently like making
girls cry when they try to give you
their number right like I mean just how
bad is that's just bad guys that's bad
yeah I did all of that except for the
PlayStation yeah so props dude so do you
have a time to get into relationship
absolutely let's do it yeah
quicker wait um just I want to host like
one question gallon you mentioned like
doshas before I just wanted to I'm
curious if you have like a solid idea
where everyone's doshas here after just
like an hour of talking to her
sure do you have like a solid idea for
everyone yeah I think so
you want another thing artists that
would be fun yeah okay so I think
Richard is predominantly pizza I think
bear is predominantly goof-up Aaron I
think you were Vuitton gufa ghosts I
think you're bitten maybe Vata and Tony
maybe I'm not so sure about Tony you
have you have fought the features and
Gotha features actually but hard to say
yeah I think part of me just likes to be
ambiguous and not be pigeonholed so for
some reason I I think I subconsciously
try to mmm be everything you know like
all the good time
like be amorphous yeah but let's let's
move on to relationships go sorry I I
want to just make sure we have time for
this but I'm always I would love to talk
more about my brother but that's my
initial instinct so who wants to so
let's talk about relationships well I'm
not sure if this is appropriate before
we move on I want to quickly say like
you know I feel good about this and I
love you guys for being here and thank
you for sharing you know yeah especially
into the hard parts yeah man and then
with that being said relationships right
now I feel like I'm avoiding
relationships because I feel like I
thought I don't want a part of me feels
like I'm I want that I want to be you
know again the the level 100 pro first
otherwise bad things will happen
otherwise the other person will get hurt
and I also afraid of rejection I think
that's where I'm at
who else wants to be perfect before they
start no surprise right so what does
that mean when I say who wants to be
perfect before they start
maybe it's an idea go for it bear yep
it's like oh we bought we want to be
that Superman that super super human
being before we jump into something that
might make us more vulnerable why
why is it important to be perfect before
you start okay will table it so first of
all being perfect before you start is
that damage mitigation with healing or
evasion tanking evasion very good guys
see that
good so we'll get we'll get to what that
means okay so and then also Tony you
said is that you you know you want to be
level 100 before you start and then what
was the other thing that's keeping you
from engaging in a relationship so what
I feel really down when in wouldn't in
the past I've let people down and I'm
especially hurt when other people are
hurt
so those and I think I've been scarred
from that you know I'm because I've let
myself down so many times I'm kind of
that to some degree but it really hurts
when yeah thank you
when other people that I care about are
genuinely hurt and then that's part of
me can't forgive myself for hurting
other people for being reckless or just
not being prepared or not being
responsible for what I am putting myself
into other people have just general
thoughts about the way that they view
relationships my well I guess as of
right now I'm just avoiding
relationships because last one I was
then I was cheated on and so like sorry
two of them well yeah it's fine it just
goes further to reinforce like I haven't
had self-confidence issues in a while
but when something like that happens it
goes
to destroy a lot of progress than making
that area and then also my relationships
that have always just been a mess I just
can't seem to find a healthy
relationship I've been in a relationship
to where I was like I break up with them
and then I was like harassed for months
after by them relationships or like I've
been cheated on yeah it's just never
been healthy interactions with me with
relationships that sucks man yeah and
for me like every time I hear horror
stories from other people you know it
makes me feel like like [ __ ] I don't
want to get involved with that then you
know with all the bad news that I hear
and you know I just I'm just filled with
fear and and pain avoidance every time I
hear something like that happens and on
top of that you know I didn't have my
parents be in a best relationship as I
was going older and even to this point
so that's for me that's a big part of it
just not seeing a healthy relationship
right in front of my eyes over and over
again so that I can be inspired and I
can model that down to my subconscious
level I like that
yeah I resonate with that too I actually
just got out of like one of those horror
story relationships where it was a whole
lot of gaslighting abuse to the point
where I was beginning to become
delusional and my friends my family and
even my therapist started to turn on me
to a certain things
it was it's a very crazy situation I
don't know if this is voyeuristic but I
find myself being very curious curious
how I yeah me too
I'm willing to answer all questions I
very respect curiosity yeah bear I'm
particularly surprised that in a
relationship it sounds like everyone
around you turned on you that's really I
don't think I've heard of that happening
even including your therapist like
that's really strange
so it was I'm a really highly empathetic
individual and I'm very agreeable and YX
was I mean I would label her as a covert
narcissist and she just kind of got
everyone to turn on me I don't really
know how but they were they got to the
point where my friends in my family and
even my therapist started to Gaslight me
along with with the same stories that
she would tell me it sounds awful man
yeah for those who I mean maybe
something you gather I know but from
what I've heard and read when you're
very empathic you naturally attract
narcissists to know to take advantage of
that situation hundreds yeah and then to
add on to that like I think I'm
naturally empathic and then being afraid
of being hurt by narcissist
I kind of shove away my empathy
sometimes and sometimes I'm a jerk so I
don't get taken advantage of and then
sometimes if I'm not careful I'm
paranoid of becoming a narcissist myself
like I'm swinging to the other extreme
yeah you know I'm always asking myself
oh my god am I gonna become a narcissist
and my you know cuz I want to be the
other and like I shift what I'd rather
hurt people or be hurt you know whereas
I'd rather be just me I've been
described as um by like multiple girls
as impenetrable in the sense that they
feel like when they try to get through
to me someone said that they even if
they talk to me for years they feel like
they wouldn't truly know me like they
know other people and the as much depth
as other people have they feel like
everyone has a core but I've been told
that they feel like with me it's just
more and more less and then I was
telling this to one of my friends and
then he said that it seems like it's a
shifting puzzle that you can peel back a
larren and the whole thing reshapes and
then you're even more confused and it's
like this subconscious thing where I
just can't let anyone in and it's like
I've never truly seen and I don't know
it's or just terrifies me what terrifies
you there's a lot of aspects to it like
feels like I don't know the depth of my
self which is quite scary and it's like
maybe I can never truly be myself in
front of anyone not even myself because
of what what I may find that you know
that's so significant that I'm blocking
it even for myself and then maybe I
can't ever
unravel that puzzle so I'm gonna ask the
group a question and I want to give
Richard a chance to share if he wants to
but do you guys feel like you'll be all
know ghosts yeah kind of yeah yeah what
do you think about that Ghost
well actually two it goes just so you
understand where I'm coming from I feel
like I like I know where you're coming
from but you just take it a one or two
steps further but not that far not not
too far from from my Syrian coast what
do you think of um okay I kind of I
understand why you'd say that but I also
feel like there are multiple aspects to
a person in that you can have a persona
and you can either sort you're getting
do you think we're getting a persona I
think you're getting hints of every so
often there's like a moment of depth but
then it can kind of go back to persona
like there's a lot of things that I just
don't say sure and I would say that most
of the people here know who you are how
does that sit with you
I'm not sure I agree because I feel like
yep how would it sit with you
what is so I know you don't agree but
how does it sit with you if people do
know who you are uncomfortable because
I'm not sure that I know who I am yeah
I'd like to be able to have people know
who I am and be my authentic self but I
I kind of just it feels like I've my
entire life I felt like a hurricane that
just destroys anything that gets too
close so I try to keep people away and
that's sort of why I evade and that it's
a combination of not wanting to get hurt
but also not wanting to hurt others
so ghosts I'm gonna interrupt you in a
very insensitive way just ask the group
cuz I'm gonna just I'm gonna bludgeon
you with a hammer so so would you guys
describe your experiences with ghosts
would you guys describe him as a tornado
that hurts everything in its path
definitely not potentially to be honest
potentially yeah what do you guys see
he's very insightful very very ins he's
caring he tries to uh it's always trying
to rationalize things and ways and
connects to people in ways that way they
can feel more personal with what's going
on so very I guess little it's a little
selfless thing to do but it's like
appreciated stop ghost is cool as [ __ ]
look at him right now he is stoic you
know his accent he's in the shadow of it
now look at that that's so [ __ ] cool
Wow yeah ghost everything he said just
him like a u-turn it was completely
alien to me I don't I don't see that I
see someone expressing an authentic
vulnerable side to themselves on stream
and I don't see any tornado I don't see
any shifting puzzle and does anyone else
see that I don't see
so ghosts like generally speaking like
the people on this stream tend to be
pretty right right
like when they say stuff I think that
like I I would I would venture that you
think that what they have to say or the
way that you've demonstrated yourself
maybe you're you know putting on a
persona is that you you tend to respect
and value what other people say it seems
like a lot of what they've said has
resonated with you and a lot of what
you've said is resonated with them would
you agree with that yeah I would agree
with that so how I feel like how do you
explain that these guys think that
you're this awesome person they also
know who you are
they're strangers across the internet
you guys have presumably been talking
about porn addiction for a couple of
hours what how how does that work I
think I be caring but maybe it's that's
definitely a destructive streak in me
trauma that can be quite unsettling
because it like that definitely is this
caring part to me but when people see
that destructive element of me it kind
of terrifies them because they wonder
how there can be such I'm almost sort of
scared of that part of myself sure like
a like the Jungian shadow in a sense I
guess yeah I also have that sort of
sense that's why I'm not afraid of it
seen it myself
and I guess um I think I'm quite I'm a
few years older than you so I like I'm
used to it more so that's why I'm not
really afraid of it like when you talked
earlier about this like sea of anger
that you might have I resonated a lot
with me but uh yeah I'm not afraid of it
can you tell us about a little bit about
how your relationship with Aaron your
your sea of anger has changed over time
a lot of it was there was always like a
focal point to it when I was younger it
was like my circumstances and other
people and when I got a little bit older
it turned into me and y'all just get
stuck in like this whirlpool
swirling around and it ends it's just
always centered on you and then I hit a
point in my life where I just like hit
rock bottom so hard that it bounced off
the floor and kind of broke who I was
and my ego and once that happens it was
just like all the raging waters of anger
just sort of like calmed down I was able
to just be yes that that resonates Arlo
in the sense of like you said that you
sort of directed out yourself and I'm
wondering if that's because you did that
come from you not wanting to hurt other
people so you felt if I'm gonna hurt
anyone it's gonna be myself is that what
okay yeah oh yeah that makes a lot yeah
that resonates like really deeply yes I
was so scared of hurting others and like
I still have that like innate fear that
I can be like a little insensitive or I
can like what the switch then all of a
sudden I'm like this just evil person
and I can just hate everyone and
everything and I won't care about anyone
but I guess you start to realize that uh
I don't know you everything just seems
to calm down
once you find those connections with
people and the more that you find is the
more that it seems to like calm the
waters when I was uh when I was fifteen
my plan was like I felt like all I was
was just a ball of suffering and I felt
like a ticking time bomb and I thought
if I go on living like this and I go on
trying to interact with people I'm just
going to spread as much suffering into
the world as possible so the most
productive solution I saw in my fifteen
year old brain was I'm just gonna
isolate myself completely from everyone
sever ties be annoying because if I'm
this ticking time bomb the best thing I
can do is kill myself so to minimize the
impact of my death I'll just push
everyone as far away as possible to the
point where everyone forgets about me
because the further they are from the
explosion the less hurt they are and I
thought this that in the short term
suicide would hurt other people more but
in the long run I would prevent any
further damage that I could do to people
but I've since kind of I've sat with
that that self-hate for so
long in like the last month I've kind of
gotten just sick of it to the point
where off like the first time in 18
years of my life I actually am trying to
be my own advocate and view myself as a
person that's worthy of happiness
because I never thought it was yeah I
want to relate that to that just a bit
like yesterday there was events going in
my house that were triggering me and you
know usually I would just kind of
abandon my inner child but then
yesterday I just kind of like try to
soothe myself and be my own advocate be
my own friend and just like be there for
myself and kind of let the outer
triggering shitty world kind of fade out
and just be there with myself and like
you know take care of my my inner you
know just take care of myself like my
inner child like like Tony it's it's
alright man I'm with you man I'm gonna
take care of you like it's gonna be
[ __ ] shitty outside but I'm here for
you yeah yeah I'm glad to hear them
actually and if you don't mind you said
that your ego you had to experience that
brokered ego and then everything calmed
down can you just give a um I'm not sure
how into detail I can go into it on
streem other than volts yeah it's um I
had two very near-death experiences and
I guess that puts a lot of pressure on
the mind and it just sort of um it was
almost like flicking a switch and
everything just seemed to calm down
almost like an apathetic state but
because I wasn't like born apathetic i
stoled like knew what emotions were I
was I've been able to like slowly like
reintroduce myself
mature way like how to process emotions
out to you like be frustrated instead of
like raging you like be just like sad
and be able to grieve instead of just
being like writhing and despair just
like being able to tone back the
extremities of those emotions and also
turn back the Messiah Complex that I had
thanks for sharing your I want to just
kind of so I have man so many questions
so first is like we're talking about
some dark [ __ ] how do you guys feel good
Sara oh good I feel good I feel great
weird good yeah like this is some real I
mean this is some dark stuff right and
even ghosts even has his SIF lighting on
so I mean we're talking about this you
know we're talking about the Maori
Jedi's okay
so we're talking about you know
different we're talking about just a lot
of bad stuff and yet have you guys seen
the comments from the YouTube the
comments to the YouTube video of our
last session
not particularly no so I don't usually
look at like our own social media cuz I
just try to steer clear of it but that
is some of the most inspiring [ __ ] I've
ever seen can you give like in it's hard
to describe just just the overwhelming
amount of positivity and hope that the
last stream is created from for random
people who comment on YouTube videos is
staggering and oh my YouTube comments
are accessible so that's that's good to
hit I've just as stunned as you are
right so like you you take a place like
YouTube and like you guys know what
YouTube comments are like right it's
like worse than twitch at its the
underbelly of society it's the worst and
then you take a group of people talking
about porn addiction and you stick that
on YouTube and you expect you know just
the cesspool of the cessful like for all
the people who live in the cesspool
you go into their septic tank and that's
what it should create yeah and yet
somehow something something very strange
is happening here that you guys are
talking about some really dark and bad
[ __ ] right you're talking about being
tornadoes of destruction for the people
around you you guys are talking about
gas lighting and abuse and you know
being angry and suicidal and and nearly
dying and you know walking to death's
door and cracking it open a little bit
and peeking through into seeing what's
on the other side and yet you all feel
ok you all feel good we've got ghosts
who's terrified that no one is ever
gonna understand him because he doesn't
understand himself and then like the
rest of us are just like scratching our
heads were like we get you dude like we
understand who you are
and it's it's so confusing to him and I
I mean I'm sure that all of you guys are
really good at bullshitting I'm sure all
of you guys are really good at lying but
I also think that y'all are really good
at sniffing out other people's [ __ ]
and I think if there was someone who's
both bullshitting in here we would be
able to sniff him out pretty quick you
can't create what's happening here if
there's someone who's full of [ __ ] right
so there's something really like special
going on and by the way we're supposed
to be talking about relationships so I'm
gonna switch back there so I'm gonna
quickly I think I'm gonna pat ourselves
on the back because you know the reason
I think the reason why the cesspool of
YouTube comments were positive is
because when when you can own who you
are it's respectable it means you have
you know you have balls you know so I
think it's that's why I think I love you
guys because you guys own it too and
then we're doing it together so yeah
that's that's a win for me yeah man Tony
thanks for your repeated suppose are at
the positivity dude sometimes I want to
be a therapist too but uh I guess my
moving lot moves on I think you'd be
good at attorney
you're like a calming presence so I just
want to acknowledge a couple things one
is that you know so we've had some
supposed to topics that we're supposed
to talk about but I just want to point
out that we're like kind of all over the
place but I don't think it's really that
we're all over the place I think it's
just that like things are not things
don't stay in their buckets so what when
I when I when I hear you guys talk about
relationships what I really hear is
there's themes of fear first of all and
most predominantly and secondly like
like being afraid of like hurting other
people and probably something about you
don't want to subject people to the
person that you are
I'm hearing that as well and you know in
the case of you know I think this
applies to I'm not getting that from
Bayer which i think is completely fine
so I don't think everyone has to have
the same experience but I think it bears
case it sounds like he was just really
in a toxic relationship and it sounds
like you guys have all had toxic
relationships and also you know what I
am I don't know if I'm really surprised
by this or not but like a lot of times
when we think about gamers or people on
Twitter like our people like the problem
is not that the relationships are full
of hurt or fear or pain or toxicity it's
that they just can't find them and so
I'm in that group you want to share a
little bit about what that's been like
oh I kind of just did this self but now
I'm kind of zoning out because I kind of
put all my attention on the superhero
complex we're trying to trying to kind
of digest it have you yeah I'm
definitely level one in that arena and I
I definitely want to be that perfect guy
going into it so um I understand that
now so I just accept the reality that
I'm just level one and that I've also
haven't looked for any relationship so
you know I can't complain it's just
something I might got to yet so that's
that's where I'm at and yeah so I'm just
trying to think about because we're
gonna have to wrap up it a little bit if
there's something that we can try to
like tie together or take home about
relationships and I realize we haven't
really done it justice so I was gonna
just kind of you know so we can do a
couple things and I'll leave it to you
guys to decide we can just kind of
continue to talk sort of open forum
because I think there's a lot of value
and we're uncovering a lot or what we
can do is you know pick one or two
things to try to like probably one thing
to explore and really come away with
some sense of understanding about like
how that one thing works what do you
guys think would be a better use of our
time
maybe focus on the one thing I think the
one thing and he is usually the one
thing tends to be just a mindset or
recognizing or be mindful of a state
that we're in I want to tie it down to a
practice so that we stick to that one
thing and that we embody that one thing
over and over again or that we you know
mitigate any triggers that remove us
from that one thing okay you know yeah I
got very practical mmm take away tying
to that one thing okay yeah sure so I'm
a fan of trying to keep things practical
as well so I'd like to offer something
for our one thing which is that why do
you feel like you need to be perfect can
we understand why you feel like you need
to be level 100 before you enter a
relationship and what does that do to
you what does that do to your prospects
for a relationship like where does that
come from
what do you guys think about that is a
topic I think that's a good topic does
anybody else have suggestions for what
to talk about works for me so let's
start with so why do you guys where does
that feeling so you guys so who here
feels like they want to be someone else
before they engage in a relationship my
caveat is
I just want to be myself again once I
could be myself again can I know I've
been there like once I'm myself then I
know it can be a pretty decent guy but
there's just thing I just I'm in a
situation where I'm not for myself okay
so why do you guys what is it that you
want to be before you enter a
relationship successful the idea why is
it important to be what what if you were
successful bear what would that change
about how you approach relationships it
would change my mentality of status and
how I would value myself and how I feel
like other people would would value me
uh-huh how would you change how would it
change how you value yourself
I could reflect on all the there it'd be
easier for me to reflect on all the good
that I've done knowing that it's it's
actually viable it's a versus what I
have now
okay and how would that change your
perception of how other people would see
you well I'm I'm heavily influenced by
how people see me
and the way they see me now is not I
guess not the best and then once I get
to that that point success surely the
that view would change but there's no I
guess a hundred percent confidence
behind that what what do you mean by not
the best how do they see you now
uh I just graduated no job just kind of
sitting at home playing video games do
nothing so how do they see what does
that mean unsuccessful I guess when you
guys think about how do you get okay so
let's just leave it at that so I'm gonna
ask a couple other people right so
Richard what would you like to be before
you enter into a relationship I get this
sense that I'm not sure I I would love
to be in a relationship it's just I
don't I don't know I'm not sure I'm no
I'm just level zero at this point
good answer so I think if you're not if
you're not sure about something you
should just say that so I'm gonna just
bounce around because I'm gonna try to
pull out themes okay so ghosts what
would you like to be different before
you enter a relationship I'm kind of
thinking of two different answers okay
one of them is whole but that reminds me
of when you were talking to reckful
about borderline personality disorder
that it's like it's hard to it's like
the whole kind of comes after but I'm
not sure I want to subject someone to
myself when I'm not whole and then
there's another part of me that's saying
I'm not even sure that I want to be in a
relationship because I feel like I'm so
I never want to be tied down to anything
because it makes me feel trapped and I
always want to be able to take flight if
I need to
but maybe that's something really
unhealthy and maybe that's rooted in
something yeah that's how I feel what
have you felt trapped before yeah
yeah quite a lot I kind of um I'm
realizing that I'm really good at
setting boundaries without even
realizing like I just don't let people
in because I I like unless they're
strangers on I don't like syrup
yeah I don't know what that is I feel
like it feels like there's a part of me
that's dominant all of the time and then
the part of me that's not dominant seize
this opportunity and it's like well if
there's gonna be one opportunity like
this is the time to strike and regain
control of myself
okay um yeah it feels like I'm I don't
know that I want to surrender control to
another person I like to be in control
of my own life and I feel like I had a
really mmm okay someone I know will be
watching this but I don't care I'm gonna
say I had a really abusive upbringing
and I had like really severe sort of
like strict like tyranny I guess and
that's sort of always fueled this need
to feel free and I just I can't feel
trapped because it's the worst thing in
the world to me and I'd rather have
nothing and be free than have something
and be trapped sure
Tony you said that you want to be
yourself again can you help us
understand who you are now and how
you're different from yourself yeah
sometimes like like go said like when if
he's if he feels whole again then you
know he'd be it'd be all right it I
think in relationship or it may be more
open to the idea of being with [ __ ] when
he's whole because for me it's like I
don't like it when I try to hide parts
of myself you know I have my weaknesses
or hide my mistakes or hide little
things that I'm not proud of I don't I
don't like the sense of hiding so once I
and once I can overcome those things
that I'm trying to hide that I don't
need to hide anymore right then I could
just be me absolutely authentic yeah
free you know and and I I want to be
free you know as opposed to be being was
called chained down to little petty bits
with shame whether they're petty or
deep-rooted and I just want to be free
and like she'll be me you know you could
probably enough yeah that's me yeah so
the first thing that I want to say is
that you know I'm just really surprised
by how reasonable when everyone else
what everyone is saying is right
maybe surprise isn't really the right
word but like I just want to acknowledge
because I think it's significant that
you know these are not these are very
real challenges that you guys face real
experiences that you all have had this
is not like some kind of cognitive bias
this is I mean there may be elements of
depression and stuff like that but you
know when we're dealing with something
like depression or anxiety like the
basic problem is that the thoughts that
your mind has are wrong right so like if
you have social anxiety and you think
everyone hates you like that's a wrong
thought
the first thing that I kind of want to
acknowledge is that I don't think that
they're like wrong thoughts here I think
each of what you guys want before you're
ready for a relationship
is very like legitimate and real right
this isn't pathology on your part it's
just you wanting to be in a different
place in your life now I think there are
a couple of things that I would I'm just
gonna start talking if that's okay
because we've got about maybe 5 to 10
minutes left the first thing is I think
all of you guys are thinking that in
order for you to have the perfect
relationship you have to be the perfect
person and I think the subtle thing that
has been unsaid all along here is that
what y'all are looking for is a perfect
relationship right because you're
envisioning that if you are a certain
way then the relationship is going to be
a certain way you guys see that y'all
think about that it's an unrealistic
expectation did you guys realize that
that was what your expectation was um
kind of it reminds me of a scene from
Good Will Hunting I don't know if
anyone's seen it but like there's a
scene where the main character is saying
that he doesn't want to call it go back
because right now in his head she's
perfect then he doesn't want to find out
and ruin it and then his therapist says
maybe you're perfect to her right now
and then he says it's not a matter of
whether you're perfect or she's perfect
but whether or not you're perfect for
each other
and whether or not you click with your
imperfections so maybe that's like the
most authentic thing you can hope for
yeah so I think the the subtle thing
here is that you guys are wanting to be
perfect because you're envisioning so
like you're envisioning this perfect
relationship and for that perfect
relationship to succeed you have to be a
particular thing
right that's what you're really because
you're saying like okay I'm there's this
thing in my there's this fantasy in my
mind and unless I am that thing I'm
going to screw it up this is cue all the
thoughts about I am a tornado of death
and I hurt I don't want to hurt other
people if I'm not confident in myself I
may be attracting the wrong kind of
person who's narcissistic and gaslight
me and all that kind of [ __ ] you know
like there are all of these like
reasonable thoughts that are ending up
with this sort of like flawed premise
that you guys are looking for a perfect
relationship and for the record I don't
I don't know that you guys are ready for
a real relationship yet but I do think
that it's important to remember that you
know good relationships in my opinion
are defined not because the people that
like the good relationships are not the
ones that people and enter into when
they're perfect the good relationship is
the one where the person that you're
with helps you become the starting point
that you guys are looking for that's a
good relationship right so like I can
relate a lot to what Baer was saying
personally because my relationship
started when I was in no one and and
thankfully my wife like stuck with me
like so we started dating when I was a
junior in college and then you know I
graduated after five years in college
and then for the next four years like
she continued to stick with me even
though she had many better options and I
wasn't making any money I wasn't you
know I was just a guy who graduated
three years ago with a biology degree in
a 2.5 GPA like that's a no one in life
like that like you know bear just
graduated it's just like three years
later I'm exactly where Bear is today
and and she's stuck with me and so you
know was she perfect absolutely not was
I perfect absolutely not
and so I'd encourage you guys to think a
little bit about you know when you are
trying to be this perfect person because
you don't want to hurt people this once
again is like as you guys said that's
evasion tanking right so I think part of
what a relationship a good relationship
is about is that you actually do
hurt other people like that's something
you have to accept from the get-go and
that other people are gonna hurt you
the question is what happens when
someone takes damage you know do they do
they Gaslight everyone around you -
dogpile you and make you feel like a
piece of [ __ ] that's a relationship that
needs to end
or do they apologize and like try to
help you grow and try to grow themselves
are they willing to stick with you while
you're exploring all the layers to your
own onion because you don't know who you
are and be sort of a stable force are
they willing to be patient with you
while you figure your own [ __ ] out which
I'm eternally grateful to my wife
because she was I didn't know who the
[ __ ] I was and she was like kind of okay
with that and and so I think the last
thing to understand is that you guys are
striving to be perfect before you enter
this relationship you want to be level
100 but you're actually setting like a
very dangerous expectation for the other
person which is to expect perfection
from you that's a relationship that's
gonna fail because this Thunder this set
is up here yeah so then when you fall
below it you're not meeting your own
standards absolutely it's gonna be false
advertising too because you guys are
never gonna be level 100 it's just not
gonna happen
you can also like a full buck you could
even go back they can release expansions
and raise the level cap that's actually
what happens right so as you get better
you become
I mean dissatisfaction has nothing to do
with where you are in life like I work
with people that are wildly successful
and equally dissatisfied is like you
know the people I work with on you know
on twitch like gamers and average people
and neat people like any et people and
stuff like that it's all it's all about
attitude and self-satisfaction
so I'd really encourage you guys to
think a lot about this idea of like you
know I want to be perfect before I enter
a relationship so I think it like I said
so the first thing is it comes from a
very normal place that you guys really
do want to make some changes about
yourself I think all of the things that
you guys want to accomplish are
reasonable goals the only issue that I
take is that just because you haven't
met those goals doesn't mean that you're
not ready for a relationship actually I
mean you're not ready but that doesn't
mean that it isn't a good idea the last
thing is I don't think you need to be
right I mean I [ __ ] wasn't ready for
a relationship do you think you can ever
really be ready
no and this goes this goes back to the
idea of you can only be what you are
right so the last thing that I'm gonna
leave you guys with is something even
more confusing a little bit spiritual
which is the concept of Karma
so your karma did I mean so you guys
don't have to believe this but just just
to think about it so I I don't think
about karma as being right or wrong I
think about it as a framework that can
help us understand certain things about
our life so like we were each given a
hand of cards to play the game of life
and that's our Karma I'm not saying it
was determined by God or anything like
that I'm just saying that our
circumstances are unique and our
circumstances form us into the people
that we are today and so you guys can't
be anything but what you were so ghost
has this issue about feeling trapped
because you grew up in a tyrannical
household like you can't undo that you
don't get to re-roll right so that's
just what you deal with
that's your karma and also to understand
that you can't expect yourself to be
free of that you can't hold yourself to
a standard of not being paranoid to
being trapped because that's what you
[ __ ] are you're paranoid of being
trapped so be it that's the hand that
you were dealt that's your karma so play
that hand it doesn't mean that you can't
win the game
and so whether it's a couple of
near-death experiences a narcissistic
partner who gaslighted everyone around
you you know non-ideal modeling for what
a relationship looks like or a fear of
being trapped and paranoid or even not
even knowing what you want from a
relationship because your level zero all
of those are your gut Irma's those are
your unique set of circumstances you
can't be anything but what you are
because that's the hand that you were
given and you've made choices in the
past but just because those choices were
a mistake before doesn't change the fact
that you made those mistakes and you
have to deal with that [ __ ] today right
so you like even today every day you
have the hand of cards that you sort of
determined the day before and the day
before the day before and you can regret
playing that hand a particular way but
you still have to deal with the
aftermath of who you are today which is
imperfect
and not ready and completely ok thoughts
or questions before we wrap up I was
just a quick question on that yeah so
the conversation was unraveling I saw
myself really pushing forward to an idea
of like a perfect loving family like two
kids is uh is that a perfect
relationship or is it is I guess my main
question is is there a difference
between loving and perfect what do you
guys think so is that like a good a good
pursuit a good goal a good maybe maybe
that's not the right link so I'm gonna
sort of turn that question on its head I
think what's perfect is what is
right so like if you walk outside and
you look at a flower that flower cannot
be anything but what it is it can't be
in a different place it can't be a
different color so if you really look at
it from a yogic perspective the idea of
perfection is just a false thing because
the only thing that is is what is you
can't stop making it rain you can't you
know change the person that you are so
in a sense you are perfect
so is it like don't concern yourself
with that which you can't control like
just release any ideas about something
that's out of your control completely
yeah so just be the person that you are
and do the best that you can and in
terms of having goals I think generally
speaking we have goals when we have very
little information right so my
perception of what good and healthy
marriage is like when I started out I
had no clue and I think one of the
biggest mistakes that people make is
they like they come up with checklists
right they're like I want my partner to
be a B and C and generally speaking the
more that they adhere to the checklist
just what I've seen in terms of you know
my friends and people who are my age who
get married and don't get married and
end up in happy relationships and don't
end up in happy relationships is the
people who are obsessed with checklists
and like meeting a certain standard are
the ones who tend to get divorced or not
be married
it's the people who actually like just
about every relationship so when I work
with people you know in in my practice I
see a lot of healthy relationships and
all of them are like deeply flawed at
the very beginning it's like people
getting together with people that they
really should not get together with
right so like you know asking an 18 year
old to marry you when you work at
Chili's seems like a terrible idea
and it is a terrible idea but bizarrely
enough girl's parents were okay with it
and they're like happily married now
what is this something like eighteen
years later right so like don't expect
don't set up in your mind what a perfect
person or perfect relationship looks
like because you just don't know like
well the perfect relationship is the one
that's right for you
and that that one you know I think
you'll know it when you see it but you
have to give yourself a chance the one
thing that I would encourage you guys to
do is just if you're not ready for a
relationship that's completely
reasonable you know if you have some
stuff that you want to work on stuff
like that but I was I mean I started I
met my wife when I was convinced I was
gonna become a monk and be celibate for
the rest of my life so that was just
terrible I mean was a terrible idea for
everyone involved
and you were confused yeah I got
confused and it was great
like I'm so glad cuz man I just I if
that had not happened I would not have
recognized the depth of my idiocy and
that has gotten me to appreciate so much
about how stupid human beings can
actually be and it also gives me
compassion for the dumbest human beings
on the planet which allows me to talk to
people on Twitch
cuz that's usually yeah if you hadn't
met your wife and you had become a monk
do you think you would have lived a
happy life and that version of you would
now still be glad of making that choice
I do you think you just have to accept
whichever path you end up taking I think
there's only one path okay right so I
here's our meditation practice for the
day so we can do mula bandha again you
guys remember mula bandha yeah so mula
bandha is so we're gonna contract the
perineum which you guys can you know try
this at home if you want to but
okay so mula bandha is is so Tony and
bare so you guys know how to flex your
penis up so go ahead and pull that
muscle and notice when you pull that
muscle that your anus contracts this I'm
not trawling you guys seriously it's
just it's really not trolling you kegels
right giggles yeah kegels exactly
so basically mula bandha is contracting
that muscle for a period of like three
to five seconds and then relaxing and
then contracting and relaxing so let's
practice so contract one two three and
relax and then contract again one two
three relax
contract one two three
relax good so continue practicing for
let's say another thirty Seconds good so
I have another meditation practice for
you guys so this one that's a little bit
more contemplative this is gonna sound
kind of weird but I want you guys to go
outside and look at a plant and then ask
yourself is that plant perfect
and could that plant be anything else
and I know you can think of an answer as
you sit here and you imagine the
scenario but part of a meditative
practices actually go outside and look
at it and contemplate it and use that
sensory experience okay
how you guys feeling good tom you guys
how do you all feel about your future
confident
ghosts are you ever gonna get to the
bottom of the onion shark huh Shrek I
think yeah I think I am okay bear are
you gonna be successful just long as I
take the stuff Sunday - right yep the
only steps you can't take one layer at a
time one layer at a time
now I'll build donkey that'll do so
he'll do I don't have you know specific
questions for each and every one of you
but I think let me just see what I can
pull out so if for Aaron I guess my
question is is death inevitable are you
gonna drown be honest one day in the
very very very far future well when the
time is right but when the time is right
perfect time because there's only one
thought yeah I have too many things too
many ambitions good so try to
trying to fulfill what you can and then
you'll learn how to let go of the rest
dr. K can I ask you a question was there
anything that you wanted you noticed
that you were there any questions that
weren't that we didn't have time for
that you wanted to bring up just so
yelling a thousand but I think that's
okay right so I I think we we got to the
questions that we needed to today and I
have Rosen ambitions as well I have all
kinds of things that I jotted down that
I wanted to ask you guys about and what
do you know those we didn't have time
for those those questions are
unfulfilled we may never get to them and
yet this conversation was perfect it's
what it needed to be and you guys are
what you need to be and that's that's
just how it works so take comfort in the
fact that that's just that's how it
works guys we couldn't have asked any
more questions and we couldn't have
asked any fewer we asked them you'd go
insane if you tried to change like if
you try to really focus on those things
and didn't just see it as perfect as is
very well said ghost why the [ __ ] do you
think everyone is going crazy because
that
which you try to like that's what you
try to do in your life right just think
about that for a second you try to salt
you try to ask all the questions you try
to fulfill all the ambitions you try to
be the perfect person for a relationship
and then everyone goes insane like why
did why do you guys think this is so
successful on Twitch it's because
everyone is doing what goes to sync
right so the biggest problem with
mankind is that their ambition is
limitless and their capability is
limited if always like before more
change change change go out and see even
with with Tony it's like change I don't
need to change a whole lot I just need
to change a little bit still a problem
so go out and look at your plant and
good luck guys and yeah thank you very
much for coming on today thank you very
much for sharing asking questions being
present being what you were supposed to
be yeah thank you thank you everyone
actually I wanna hold you guys I'll
maybe I'll get in touch with you guys
and maybe we can be accountability
buddies just to do our kegels and Bobby
it it'll be fun
this is an invitational all right guys
take care
strong guys good luck everyone okay so
guys thank you very much for coming I
don't know how much of that people were
able to keep up with but yeah so I think
you know one thing that I just wanted to
say for a second is that I think that
this actually highlights a little bit
about why I think our coaching program
is like actually gonna be pretty good
because I think you know we have all
these problems that we think we have but
the solutions tend to be like a lot
wider and deeper and broader I think
things are related in in terms of our
mind and stuff and so my hope is that I
mean so my question is how do we help
people explore this kind of stuff and
and that's where I think like that my
hope is that the coaching program works
so we'll see
but you know if you guys are feeling
stuck in a particular area of your life
don't be so restrictive is to think that
the solution to that problem is like
fixing that problem when we talked about
relationships for example you know they
you know there are all kinds of there's
all kinds of relationship advice you can
give people I think the real challenge
is is in recognizing that you know what
these people are struggling with is like
fear of who they are and that they're
not going to be good enough in a
relationship for someone else
and they're not going to be good enough
in a relationship for someone else right
so successful relationships people grow
and learn how to get better at them so
you're not like I mean you start off
with low XP and then you like level up
with someone and if things worked out
then you guys like stay with them and
and that's great so if you guys think
that you know your problem is video game
addiction or your problem is this or
your problem is that like do yourself
the benefit do yourself the benefit of
digging a little bit deeper and seeing
if there's something related to it right
is this an issue of confidence is this
an issue of like you know I don't want
to be successful because even if I'm
successful I'm never going to live up to
the fantasy that I have in my mind
that's a big one that people are not
willing to they say oh I'm unemployed I
don't have a job I sit at home all day
and they can go out and get a job but
they don't want to get a job because the
job that they're gonna get is gonna be
shameful right it doesn't live up to
their standard like yeah I'm happy to be
an entrepreneur but I don't want to work
for someone else so be careful about
your ego and the standards that you set
yourself and what you believe is is your
problem and what you believe your
solution is because it may be very
different from what you think
so thank you guys very much thank you
all for all of the support you know
we'll see what the YouTube comments for
this would look like if you guys did
comment on the YouTube video thank you
very much for the positive comments and
I'll see you guys on Wednesday so thanks
a lot